Revised Date: December 08, 2021 Page 1 of 29
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Office of Air and Radiation
Office of Radiation and Indoor Air
Indoor Environments Division
Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air
Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
Version 1.0
Technical Project Lead: Vito Ilacqua, ORIA/IED
Prepared by: Daniel Malashock, ORIA/IED
______________________________________________________________________
APPROVALS
Prepared by:
Daniel Malashock ___________________________________________________
Signature Date
Technical Lead:
Vito Ilacqua ___________________________________________________
Signature Date
Center Director:
Laura Kolb ___________________________________________________
Signature Date
IED QA Coordinator (Alternate):
Alisa Smith ___________________________________________________
Signature Date
ORIA QA Manager:
Jennifer Mosser ___________________________________________________
Signature DateDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
Revised Date: December 08, 2021 Page 2 of 29
Table of Contents
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ............................................................................................................ 3
A1. Distribution List..................................................................................................................... 3
A2. Project/Task Organization .................................................................................................... 3
A3. Problem Definition/Background ........................................................................................... 5
A4. Project/Task Description....................................................................................................... 5
A5. Special Training/Certification................................................................................................ 7
A6. Documents and Records ....................................................................................................... 8
A7. Quality Objectives and Criteria for Model Inputs/Outputs .................................................. 9
B. MODEL DEVELOPMENT............................................................................................................ 13
B1. Model Description............................................................................................................... 13
B2. Model Parameters & Theoretical Approach ....................................................................... 14
B3. Non-direct Measurements (Input Data Requirements)...................................................... 16
B4. Model Coding and Verification .......................................................................................... 17
B5. Sensitivity and Uncertainty Analysis ................................................................................... 19
B6. Model Calibration................................................................................................................ 19
B7. Model Verification (Model Comparison) ............................................................................ 21
B8. Model Evaluation & Validation ........................................................................................... 21
B9. Data Management .............................................................................................................. 23
C. ASSESSMENTS AND OVERSIGHT ............................................................................................... 23
C1. Assessments and Response Actions.................................................................................... 23
C2. Reports to Management ..................................................................................................... 24
D. MODEL VALIDATION AND USABILITY ....................................................................................... 24
D1. Model testing strategy........................................................................................................ 24
D2. Procedure for checking the correctness of outputs ........................................................... 25
D3. Quality assurance of code development. ........................................................................... 25
D4. Conformance to requirements ........................................................................................... 26
E. REFERENCES .............................................................................................................................. 26
F. LIST OF SECTIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS QAPP.................................................................. 27Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 3 of 29
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A1. Distribution List
\Copies of this plan and all revisions will be sent to the following individuals:
Table 1. Distribution list and contact information
NAME ORGANIZATION CONTACT INFORMATION
Vito
Ilacqua EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED/CSA Ilacqua.Vito@epa.gov
Jordan
Zambrana EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED/CSA Zambrana.Jordan@epa.gov
Serena
Chung EPA/ORD/OSAPE/ERPD/ERB Chung.Serana@epa.gov
Nicole
Scharko EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED/CSA Scharko.Nicole@epa.gov
Daniel
Malashock EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED/CSA Malashock.Daniel@epa.gov
Jennifer
Mosser EPA/OAR/ORIA/IO Mosser.Jennifer@epa.gov
Laura Kolb EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED/CSA Kolb.Laura@epa.gov
Alisa
Smith EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Smith.Alisa@epa.gov
A2. Project/Task Organization
The work described herein is being conducted by U.S. EPA staff in the Office of Radiation and
Indoor Air (ORIA), Indoor Environments Division (IED). This Quality Assurance Project Plan
(QAPP) was prepared in accordance with EPA Guidance for Quality Assurance Project Plans
for Modeling EPA QA/G-5M and describes the process for developing a simple model for
characterizing indoor air chemistry. Specifically, the QAPP summarizes various publicly
available data sources which serve as inputs to this model, quality criteria and considerations for
input and output data, and processes for validation and verification of the model and its output.
The organizational chart for the SIACS model development is presented in Figure 1 and a
description of project personnel’s roles and responsibilities are detailed in Table 2.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 4 of 29
Figure 1. Project organization chart
Table 2. Roles and Responsibilities for SIACS Modeling Effort
Project
Personnel Role Responsibility
Vito Ilacqua Principal Investigator
& Technical Lead
Set overall project direction; manage assign project
outputs (software products and publications);
communicate project details to external parties;
develop source code; manage software deployment;
mentor students and research fellows
Serena
Chung
ORD Scientist &
Model Developer Develop source code; manage software deployment
Jordan
Zambrana IED Scientist Design, develop, test, document and deploy software.
Nicole
Scharko
IED Scientist; (AAAS
Fellow) Design, develop, test, document and deploy software.
Daniel
Malashock
IED Scientist; QA
Lead
Design, develop, test, document and deploy software.
Prepares QAPP and revises as necessary.
EPA
Contractor(s)
SRC or others as
needed
Consultation on source code development and
deployment
Alisa Smith
IED Quality
Assurance
Coordinator (Acting)
Reviews and approves QAPP, performs audits, as
appropriate, prepares audit reports, tracks resulting
corrective actions, reviews and approves scientific and
technical products cleared by the technical lead
Oversight & Management
LEGEND
Oversight
Coordination
Project Team
ORIA Management Quality Assurance
IED Management
Staff Scientists & Model Developers
Contract
Support
IED Quality Assurance Manager
Task Lead / Technical Lead
ORIA Quality Assurance ManagerDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 5 of 29
Project
Personnel Role Responsibility
Jennifer
Mosser
ORIA Quality
Assurance Manager
Reviews and provides final approval of QAPP,
performs audits, as appropriate, prepares audit reports,
and tracks resulting corrective actions,
A3. Problem Definition/Background
As people in developed countries spend nearly 90% of their time indoors (EPA, 1989.), exposure
to air pollutants largely occurs in the indoor environment. Building characteristics (e.g., air
exchange rates, building materials), consumer products (carpets, furniture, cleaning products,
paints, houseplants, personal care items), indoor activities (cooking, cleaning, smoking), along
with both indoor and ambient air characteristics, all affect indoor air chemistry and thus air
pollutant exposure. Understanding how the interaction of these and other critical factors
ultimately impact indoor air pollutant concentrations is important. For this reason, a number of
indoor air pollutant measurement experiments and models are being developed. In some cases,
these are focused on specific, narrow parameters or time scales while others, require extensive
technical data for inputs along with expertise for interpretation of results.
The Indoor Environments Division at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency looks to meet
the need for a simple-to-run model as a first screening tool with the Simplified Indoor Air
Chemistry Simulator (SIACS). SIACS is a reduced-form model designed to be open source and
runs on R statistical software. The model, based on the SAPRC-99 condensed mechanism
(Carter 2000), will use about 78 chemical species (some of which are grouped in classes of
species with similar reactivity) and 211 photochemical reactions. The model is intended to be a
first step in examining conditions that can affect indoor air chemistry and may be used for
hypothesis generation and identifying the need for more complex and computationally intensive
analyses with other proprietary models.
The first generation SIACS model will be focused on researchers and public health practitioners;
however, the intent is to ultimately provide a publicly available, open-source model for
developing guidelines and recommendations for indoor air quality. Such recommendations could
include, occupant behaviors, consumer products, building materials, or adapting building design
and use – such as the risks and benefits of achieving higher energy efficiency through controlling
infiltration and exfiltration. Additionally, indoor air quality practitioners may use the model as a
tool to explore plausible scenarios that account for unexplained indoor sources.
A4. Project/Task Description
SIACS is a reduced-form model designed to be open source. The current beta version and final
open-source model will be operated on R statistical software. The project will also develop a
graphic user interface (GUI) for the model to be operated via web application. Accompanying
the model will be user guides, technical documentation, and other guidance materials. TheDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 6 of 29
project will also create a publicly accessible database for input parameters gathered from the
literature.
An iterative software development process will be used to develop the SIACS model and
accompanying web application. This approach is centered around engagement and feedback
from end users at defined increments of progress. These engagements may contribute to
refinement of the model based on user-defined needs and/or user-contributed information that
may potentially improve modeling approaches. Additionally, these engagements may also
identify additional secondary data sources that may be considered for inclusion in the SIACS
database. Identified data sources will be evaluated against data quality objectives (See section
A7. Quality Objectives for Secondary Data.)
These deployment and feedback approaches are paired with a project management approach that
allows for requirements and solutions to evolve over the course of the project and as a result of
the collective efforts of the team. The project is organized into three phases as follows, which are
each discussed in greater detail throughout this QAPP:
• Phase 1 – Modeling Needs and Requirements Analysis
o Identify customer and modeling needs (completed)
o Identify project-specific requirements (completed)
o Complete a QAPP
• Phase 2 – Model & Database Development
o Model Design
▪ Theoretical development (completed)
▪ Mathematical formulation (completed)
▪ Identification of needed input data and parameter values
o Model Coding
▪ Development of data management and software configuration
▪ Model programming
➢ Base code & packages
➢ Refinement of model
➢ Development of additional model components as needed and resources allow
(e.g., to account for secondary organic aerosol (SOA) formation and light)
➢ Examples for end-users
➢ Monte carlo simulation capability
▪ Model optimization & performance
o Model Testing
▪ Evaluate Uncertainty impact of measurement uncertainty
▪ Determine if Model Meets Performance Criteria
➢ Assess the capability of the SIACS model to capture variability in time-resolved
concentrations of indoor air speciesDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 7 of 29
➢ Compare and contrast model results to published literature on indoor air
chemistry.
➢ Summarize findings on what covariates played important roles across the sites,
response variables, and modeling methods
▪ Calibrate the model
o Database Development
▪ Gather input parameters from the literature
▪ Collect new and existing data from stakeholders and partners
o Stakeholder Engagement
▪ Engagement and feedback from end users via webinars, conference presentations, and
consultations.
o Peer Review
• Phase 3 – Model Application & Distribution
o Develop EPA website for SIACS
o Configure a graphic user interface (GUI)
o Develop guidance and messaging for various audiences
o Publish SIACS model and associated content on EPA website
o Establish a SIACS Community of Practice (tentative milestone)
A timeline of key project milestones according to the three project phases can be found in Table
3. Some project activities and their milestones occur concurrently. Additionally, some milestones
may be subject to change as a result of unforeseen changes in personnel, funding, and
management priorities.
Table 3. Project Timeline & Key Milestones by Project Phase
Phase 1: Modeling Needs and Requirements Analysis
Determine customer and modeling needs; and project-specific requirements Q4 2019
QAPP Development Q4 2020
QAPP Review & Finalization Q4 2021
Phase 2 – Model Development
Model Design, Coding, & Optimization Q3 2021
Model Testing Q3 2021
Database Development Q4 2022
Stakeholder Engagement (ongoing)
Peer Review Q1 2022
Phase 3 – Model Application
Develop EPA Website for SIACS Q3 2022
Configure a user interface Q2 2022
Develop guidance and messaging Q2 2022
Publish SIACS model on EPA website Q4 2022
A5. Special Training/CertificationDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 8 of 29
No special training requirements or certification are needed to complete this project. General
experience with common statistical analyses and familiarity with R programming language are
desirable.
A6. Documents and Records
Upon approval, this QAPP will be distributed to individuals listed in Section A1. The QAPP will
be maintained and accessible to project personnel on a shared project folder (see Section B10).
During the project, any revision to this QAPP will be circulated to everyone on the current
distribution list. The Technical Lead is responsible for ensuring all team members are distributed
the current QAPP, including additional staff on their teams that enter the project between
revisions.
Project records will be managed in accordance with EPA’s National Records Management
Program (NRMP). Records will be stored on the project share drive folder found at
F:\ORIA\IED\SIACS and the project SharePoint folder, and email records will be saved
according to EPA’s capstone requirements and EZ email tool as appropriate. The SIACS model,
related files, and previous versions will be maintained on the project share drive (F:). Project
records, including analyses, user guides, related documentation, presentations, etc., will be stored
on the SharePoint folder, and will be organized according to the following system, and updated
as needed:
Figure 2. Example of Folder OrganizationDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 9 of 29
Electronic and paper records, including email correspondence, will be managed according to
EPA’s NRMP1. The following is a list of documentation to be referenced and records to be
generated as a result of this process:
• Statements of work for contractor consultations regarding the SAICS model and performance
• Quality Assurance documentation submitted by contractors for modelling and application
activities.
• Electronic records of secondary data collected from the EPA Office of Research and
Development and other published and publicly available data.
• Compiled SIACS input data files. These files are the primary data source (input files) for the
SIACS model.
• SIACS project files that capture model output, and Excel files summarizing the modeling
results in these output files.
• Manuscript detailing the methods and results of the project.
• User guide for SIACS model.
• Presentations, briefings and conference materials.
A7. Quality Objectives and Criteria for Model Inputs/Outputs
A7.1 Overview
The project will use secondary (non-direct) data and will follow requirements outlined in EPA’s
Quality Assurance Project Plan Requirements for Secondary Data Research Projects (EPA,
1999), and EPA guidance for assessing the quality and credibility of collected data (EPA 2002;
EPA 2003). Assessments of the quality and relevance of literature and data will follow the
criteria for Data Quality Assessment (DQA) of Data from Literature outlined in Section A7.2.
This criteria includes the soundness, applicability and utility, clarity and completeness,
uncertainty and variability, comparability, and evaluation and review of the data being used. In
conducting assessments of the quality and relevance of data, Data Quality Indicators (DQI)
outlined in section A7.3 Data Quality Indicators for Data will be utilized. In applying these
criteria, a graded approach will be used, ensuring that the degree to which quality requirements
are applied is appropriate for the intended use and influence of the data.
Types of Reviewed Data
This project will collect secondary data on measured or modeled concentrations of indoor air
pollutant species in outdoor and indoor air, atmospheric conditions and measurement conditions,
and results of comparable existing modeling efforts. Secondary data collected for this project
may be obtained from many sources, including literature and published research projects,
1 EPA’s National Records Management System: https://intranet.epa.gov/records/tools/index.htmlDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 10 of 29
compilations from computerized databases and information systems, and computerized or
mathematical models of environmental processes. These data are crucial for the development of
the SIACS model and for its validation and verification. Secondary data collected for this project
will be obtained primarily from peer-reviewed scientific literature. Peer-reviewed scientific
literature generally reflects high levels of review and evaluation and where detailed methodology
and supporting information is often available. The peer-review process places duties on the
authors to ensure that the data are represented accurately. Also, the process places duties on the
referees to examine a study’s methodology and the precision of presented data. On that premise,
these publications will be viewed generally as possessing the most reliable information,
particularly if most of the criteria for Data Quality Assessment (DQA) of Data from Literature
outlined in Section A7.2 are met. As available, publicly available datasets associated with peerreviewed literature will be collected. The quality of these datasets will be scrutinized according
to Data Quality Indicators discussed in section A7.3. Lastly, this project will use secondary data
produced by EPA derived from EPA’s Community Multi-Scale Air Quality (CMAQ) Model.
Quality assurance documentation for this secondary data can be found in EPA Quality Assurance
Project Plan for the Development of Air Quality Simulation Models: Model Development
Activities for Tropospheric Ozone, Particulate Matter, and Hazardous Air Pollutants (D-CED-
000001-QP-1-0).
A graded approach will be used in this assessment, wherein the level of quality assurance applied
to the information is commensurate with the intended use of the information, the degree of
confidence necessary in that information, and the importance of the information to the project.
Documentation of assessment activities will be maintained using the Documentation of Quality
Control Form shown in Appendix A, Table A1. This form contains the data qualtiy assessments
(outlined in A7.2) and the data quality indicators (outlined in A7.3), both of which will be used
for quality assurance purposes.
A7.2 Data Quality Assessment (DQAs) of Data from Literature
The principal criteria for evaluating literature will be their pedigree—i.e., whether the data
appear in a reliable form, such as in a peer-reviewed publication – and relevance to the task at
hand. The assessment will also consider how far removed the data are from the original source
(i.e., is it a primary source or a secondary source drawing data from the primary source).
Literature will be evaluated using the five assessment factors described by EPA’s Science and
Technology Policy Council in A Summary of General Assessment Factors for Evaluating the
Quality of Scientific and Technical Information (EPA 2003). Reviewers will use this criterion
when evaluating literature identified for possible inclusion. The decision tree presented in Figure
3 incorporates the quality assessment factors presented in Table 4 and will be used in the data
and literature evaluation.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 11 of 29
Table 4. Assessment Factors and Assessment Criteria for Data from Literature
Assessment
Factor Summary Assessment Criteria for this Project
Applicability
and Utility
The publication provides relevant information for the task at hand. Types of
questions considered in this assessment factor will be the following: Does
the publication present information, such as mathematical relationships of
indoor conditions and air pollutant species, applicable to those needed for this
project? Specifically, are the measurements or mathematical relationships
reflective of a residential environment?
Soundness
The publication and any conclusions reported rely on sound scientific
theory and approaches, and the conclusions are consistent with the data
presented. Types of questions considered in this assessment factor will be
the following: Are the methodology used for data measurement appropriate?
How do the results compare with existing scientific theory, principles, and
practices?
Clarity and
Completeness
Sufficient documentation is provided with the information/data being
considered to assess underlying data, key assumptions, procedures, and
model parameters, as applicable, as well as information identifying any
potential conflicts of interest about sponsorship and author affiliations.
Types of questions considered in this assessment factor will be the
following: Are presented mathematical relationships supported by established
theory, principles and/or practice. Are simulated data and derived parameters
supported by clear and reproduceable methodology?
Uncertainty and
Variability
Sufficient documentation is provided with the information/data being
considered to assess uncertainties, variability, sources of error and/or bias,
and properly reflects them in any conclusions drawn.
Evaluation and
Review
The information/data has been independently technically reviewed, peer
reviewed, or cited and/or used by a project that has been so reviewed or has
documentation of independent verification or validation of the data study
method and results reported.
Comparability Can the data be compared across datasets? Are the results presented in a
manner that is consistent with the objectives of the study?Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 12 of 29
Figure 3. Process for Literature Evaluation
Is it
applicable
Yes, applicable
Is it peerreviewed?
Yes, peer-reviewed
Is it sound?
Is it clear and complete?
Uncertainty and variability are
characterized?
Yes to all three
Considered and
citable
No, for one or
more
Citable with
explanation
No, not peer reviewed
Does it address topics
not found in the peer
reviewed literature?
Does it provide useful
background information?
Is it independently
technically reviewed?
Yes, for one or more
Is it sound?
Is it clear and
complete?
Does it document
uncertainty and
variability?
Yes to all three
Considered and
citable
No, for one or
more
Citable with
explanation
No for all
three
Not citable
No, not applicable
Not consideredDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 13 of 29
A.7.3 Data Quality Indicators (DQIs) for Information/Data
The DQI will assist in determining whether the data are suitable for the intended use in this
analysis. That is, is the data useful in understanding temporally-resolved concentrations of
various air pollution species in residential settings? The DQI will follow that provided in
Guidance for Quality Assurance Project Plans QA/G-5 (EPA 2002). In implementing the graded
approach, each of the following six data quality indicators will be considered as applicable to the
type of data being assessed.
1. Precision: Information on indoor species are expected to have been obtained from direct
measurement.
2. Bias: The potentially biased information can be appropriately used in ascertaining bounding
analyses and may be useful to identify limits to possible parameter values. If this is the case,
the rationale as to where the bias may lie and why it is being used is provided.
3. Representativeness: Data on indoor and outdoor air pollution species in residential settings
will be utilized. Representativeness is a qualitative term that expresses the degree to which
information/data being considered accurately represents the population and/or parameter we
are trying to address
4. Completeness: The review team will look for indications that information sources are well
documented and that the study has been independently reviewed and approved.
5. Comparability: Comparability is a qualitative term that expresses the measure of confidence
that the information/data from different reports on the same or similar subjects/concepts can
be compared and combined for evaluation and development of decision(s) related to the
project tasks at hand.
6. Sensitivity: The sensitivity of project results to specific data will be an important
consideration in the use of those data in the study. The precision and accuracy of data will be
carefully evaluated in a graded QA approach and uncertainty bounds may be established in
the analysis for sensitive data of questionable accuracy.
B. MODEL DEVELOPMENT
B1. Model Description
This project consists of model development tasks such as model architecture design, coding,
testing, documenting, deployment, version control, and issue tracking. The project will use
secondary (non-direct) data from many sources and may generate large volumes of modeled data
during implementation. No sampling or collection of primary data will occur.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 14 of 29
The SIACS model is a deterministic, dynamic model of gas and particle concentrations in indoor
air. It assumes an idealized building consists of a single, well-mixed zone. The five processes
included in the model are: 1) infiltration from the outdoors, 2) exfiltration to the outdoors, 3)
indoor photochemical reactions, 4) indoor emissions, and 5) irreversible indoor deposition on
surfaces. Figure 4 displays the input variables needed in the SIACS model to develop the timeresolved concentrations of indoor air species.
Figure 4. Five Components of the SIACS Model
B2. Model Parameters & Theoretical Approach
Indoor concentrations of species are modeled by the mass conservation equation (Koutrakis et al.
1992):
(eq. 1)
where:
Ci,x indoor concentration of species x
Co,x outdoor concentration of species x
P penetration factor (across building envelope)
a air exchange rate (between indoor and ambient air)
kn pseudo-first order reaction rate constant between species indoors
Sx emission rate of species x from indoor sources
vx indoor deposition velocity for species x
SIACS
Model
Ambient Air
Concentrations
Meteorological
Data
Indoor Source
Strengths
Time-Resolved
Concentrations of Indoor Air
Species
Indoor Light Intensity or
Wavelength
Distribution
Approximate building
characteristicsDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 15 of 29
A indoor surface area
V indoor volume
The infiltration contribution to the air exchange rate is calculated using the extended Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory parameterization (Breen et al 2010; Breen et al. 2014; ASHRAE
2017), based on temperature differential and wind speed to calculate infiltration and natural
ventilation, as well as any mechanical ventilation rates (assumed as known inputs). The total
ventilation rate is calculated as
𝑄𝑡𝑜𝑡 = 𝑄𝑏𝑎𝑙 + √𝑄𝑢𝑛𝑏𝑎𝑙 2 + 𝑄𝑛𝑎𝑡 2 + 𝑄𝑖𝑛𝑓 2 (eq. 2)
𝑄𝑖𝑛𝑓 = 𝐴𝑖𝑛𝑓√𝑘𝑠|𝑇𝑖 − 𝑇𝑜| + 𝑘𝑤𝑈2 (eq. 3)
𝑄𝑛𝑎𝑡 = √𝑄𝑛𝑎𝑡 2 ,𝑤𝑖𝑛𝑑 + 𝑄𝑛𝑎𝑡 2 ,𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘 (eq. 4)
where:
Qtot total ventilation rate
Qbal balanced mechanical ventilation rate
Qunbal unbalanced mechanical ventilation rate
Qnat natural ventilation rate (through windows and doors)
Qinf infiltration (leakage) rate (through cracks in the building envelope)
Ainf Area across the building envelop
Ks Stack Coefficient
Ti Temperature indoors
To Temperature outdoors
Kw Wind Coefficient
U Wind Speed
Qnat,wind airflow from wind effect
Qnat,stack airflow from stack effect
The photochemical reaction model is based on the condensed SAPRC-99 mechanism, originally
designed for volatile organic compound (VOC) reactivity assessment in regional models (Carter,
2000). The original mechanism was developed to assist in identifying the secondary pollutant
formation potential of different VOCs, and this focus on secondary reaction byproducts remains
important for health applications indoors. Additional model development will address the
significance of changing the modeling environment and the assumptions implemented when
applying the mechanism indoors in order to adapt the chemical mechanism accordingly.
An additional component will be developed to allow for the modeling of indoor ultrafine
particles (UFP), particulate matter with diameters that are ≤ 2.5 µm (PM2.5) and particulate
matter with diameters that are ≤ 10 µm (PM10) based on ambient and indoor sources and settling
on surfaces. The component will allow the model to account for sources or reactions happeningDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 16 of 29
outside of the particles phase –including SOA formation and surface chemistry. The current
version of the model assumes all reactions take place in the gas phase and no heterogeneous
interactions, including surface absorption and desorption, are represented in SIACS. Lastly, a
component for modeling the interaction of light will be developed to improve the model’s ability
to account for interactions between light and various species.
B3. Non-direct Measurements (Input Data Requirements)
The project will use secondary (non-direct) data from many sources and may generate
large volumes of modeled data during implementation. Most parameters (Tables 5 and 6) consist
of default values provided by IED, while others are provided as inputs from users who will
access the model code or web application. Explanation of default values will be provided to users
in the SIACS User Guide. Other data sources, utilized by the end user and not provided by EPA,
will be subject to the quality guidelines of the end user and their project objectives. It is
anticipated that all secondary data will be acquired in electronic format. Acquisition of data will
be documented in electronic repositories. Metadata concerning each of the model’s inputs and
outputs will be stored on the project SharePoint and will also be made available with the final
public release of the model. Units are based upon the specification of the individual model
components.
Within the limitations of the model, users can modify most variables represented in equation 1.
Some input variables must be assigned a fixed value for the entire modeled time period, others
can be modeled as dynamically changing over time. Dynamic variables represent evolving
characteristics of the indoor and ambient atmospheres. The fixed variables are conceptualized as
representing relatively unchanging characteristics of the indoor space (building) being modeled.
The variables governing the photochemical mechanism are thought as fixed (and optimized for
the application) and cannot be changed without modifying the code for the R scripts. The
following tables present the variables that can currently be changed without changing the R
script for the model.
SIACS runs for a specified length of simulated time (in minutes) and will generate results with a
specified resolution. The solver in the model, however, calculates time steps as needed for
solution convergence, irrespective of this resolution.
A key feature of SIACS is the ability to work with limited data. All time-dependent input
variables can take a specified value as frequently or as sparsely as available data allows, but as a
minimum must be defined at the start and end times of the simulation. SIACS interpolates the
available data for every time dependent variable as needed, using the monotonic Fritsch and
Carlson spline method. Since this method does not guarantee positive values, a modification has
been developed to ensure non-negativity and continuous first-order derivatives..
The initial indoor concentrations can be provided based on known data, or calculated to match
equilibrium conditions at the start of the simulations. In the latter case, it is recommended that
users allow the model to run under constant conditions matching the desired initial state. This
model spin-up time varies based on the conditions modeled, but it is longer with lower airexchange rates.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 17 of 29
Table 5. Input Variables with Time-Dependent Values
Condition Variables Units
Ambient To , Outdoor temperature K
Wind speed m/s
Co,i Outdoor concentrations of species ppmv; µg/m3
(for particles)
Barometric pressure Pa
Indoor Ti Indoor temperature K
SunFactor (indoor fraction of zenith sun-light (summer
conditions and directly overhead) integrated photon flux,
300-760 nm),
[0,1]
Sx
, Emission rate of species g/min
Ventilation rate (over and above the infiltration rate) m3/hr
Relative humidity [0,1]
Table 6. Descriptions of Input Variables Related to Building Characteristics
Variable Description Units
Floor surface Floor surface area of space modeled m2
Room height m
Area to volume ratio m-1
Infiltration surface area Effective leakage area for infiltration m2
Pi Gas Penetration factor (for species i) Unit-less
kw
Stack coefficient (Breen, 2010) (L/s)2/(cm4K)
Ks Wind coefficient (Breen, 2010) (L/s)2/(cm4(m/s)2)
Vi Deposition velocity for species i m/min
An aim of this project will be to collect input parameters from the literature and directly from
stakeholders and partners, and to store these data in a database. Any collected literature will be
evaluated according to Quality Assessment Factors described in Section A.7.2. We will construct
this database in Excel and may eventually transition the database to a more user-friendly
software. The Excel database will provide detail on the parameter name, value and citation.
B4. Model Coding and Verification
1. Code development. During the code development records of all the assumptions, parameter
values and their sources, model inputs and outputs and their formatting requirements will be
documented. Once the code development is complete, we will prepare a code documentation
that will include model specifications, model description, flow charts, description of routines,
source listing, and error messages.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 18 of 29
The image below displays the location where the previous versions, current version and
versions under development of the modeling code will be stored on the project share drive
(F:). As mentioned in Section A6, all official records will also be saved on EZ Records. All
new versions will be released with updated documentation, which will summarize the model
changes made to the new version. The previous version and documentation will be preserved
and stored in a specified project folder named “Previous versions.” The new version will be
stored in the same project folder and named “SIACS” followed by its release date, month
<MM> and year <YY>. For example, the current version is named “SIACS 0421” because it
was released (internally to the development team) in April 2021. This process is repeated as
new versions become available. The Principal Investigator (PI) is the gatekeeper of the
current model code and any modifications and additions to the code need to be verified and
approved by that individual. Model code that is under development is stored in the folder
“Versions under development.” With regards to version control, all changes in the code are
highlighted using the comment (#) symbol and tracking of modifications is done manually
(generally in a word document) by the code developer. Once the model is publicly available,
the code may be moved to the EPA GitHub where subsequent version control and tracking
automatically may be accomplished.
2. Computer requirements for hardware and software. The selected programming language
for this project is R programming language. The source code will be made available to the
public at the end. The code will be compiled with R Studio and the resulting model will be
run on any PC or Macintosh computer using the R or R Studio software.
3. Code verification. The code will be documented with statements describing the purpose and
details of a code/programming line or group of programming lines, including functions and
subroutines. To verify the developed code, each new function, subroutine or calculation
performed by the code will be compared to results of test-case calculations performed outside
SIACS. These, in turn, will be reviewed by at least one more person in the team before the
comparison with code results is performed. In case of a mismatch, the code will be inspected
line by line for potential mathematical errors and/or bugs. If the code is not functioning in a
test trial, a R Studio debugger will be launched to identify potential errors and attempts will
be made to diagnose the source and correct the error.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 19 of 29
B5. Sensitivity and Uncertainty Analysis
In the context of this modeling effort, sensitivity analysis is intended to evaluate the degree each
input uncertainty contributes to the uncertainty of the model output. It is expected that
relationships between many variables will be highly non-linear, and consequently the sensitivity
to changes in inputs needs to be assessed at multiple possible values of each variable. The sheer
number of variables in SIACS precludes a full sensitivity analysis where the impact of each
variable is assessed individually.
Modeling uncertainty results from approximating the physical environment with a mathematical
model. Although the assumptions involved in mass balance, in the photochemical mechanism,
the infiltration model, and other components have been separately evaluated and found to be
adequate for most of their intended purposes, their combination in a single model has not yet
been evaluated against empirical data. Such comparisons, when available, will be included in this
user guide to guide users in choosing appropriate applications of SIACS.
Measurement uncertainty results from imperfect knowledge of the true value of measured
variables. To the extent that uncertainty exists within each of the input variables to SIACS it will
also exist in the output concentrations as well. The quantification of measurement uncertainty,
through error propagation or other method, in the model is under development and is planned as
a feature of the first public version of SIACS. This uncertainty characterization is important in
setting apart SIACS as a useful tool in making decisions about indoor air quality.
Monte Carlo simulations will also be performed in this project. Monte Carlo simulation performs
risk analysis by building models of possible results by substituting a range of values—a
probability distribution—for any factor that has inherent uncertainty. It then calculates results
over and over, each time using a different set of random values from the probability functions.
We will populate input parameter sets by random generation of the input parameters from their
respective a-priori distributions and run the model with each parameter set. We will rely on
expert judgment and literature for parameter distributions. If no information is available, uniform
distribution will be assumed (uninformed priors).
B6. Model Calibration
This modeling effort will not require the calibration of analytical instruments for the purposes of
generating analytical data. However, this effort will require model calibration, or the estimation
of parameters involved in the formulation of various empirical relationships. During the
development phase, some model parameters may be calibrated using existing observational data
from the scientific literature and associated data, all of which are supplied and maintained by
external sources and groups (such as HOMEChem). Quality assurance documentation associated
with data obtained from these external sources and groups will be provided and reviewed
according to DQA and DQI outlined in section A7. Individual researchers on this project are
responsible for vetting any acquired data sets as to their general quality by scrutinizing such
aspects as the data uncertainty, completeness, and appropriateness (and other applicable aspectsDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 20 of 29
as those outlined in section A7) for the modeling task at hand. This quality check will be
recorded in a table format on the Documentation of Quality Control Form as mentioned in
section A7.
Calibration of parameters via model-fit comparison of predicted vs. observational data
Model simulations will attempt to reproduce the observed data. For a select set of parameters or
modeling options, optimization will be used to minimize residuals of indoor concentrations.
Some examples of modeling parameters or options candidates for optimization include
deposition velocities, mechanism of heterogeneous HONO production, and penetration factors.
The selection of parameters to calibrate and the associated values implemented into the model
will be at the discretion of the group team and the Principle Investigator (PI) as well as the
availability of the parameters in existing studies. As mentioned above, the PI is the gatekeeper of
the model code, which also includes accompanying parameters.
Inputs to the model calibration process can highly influence the quality of information generated
by the model. Therefore, the calibration process may need to be iterative in nature, repeated
whenever some key aspect of the environment changes. Each iteration would utilize data that
accurately portray the changing environment and, therefore, would provide further necessary
refinements to the model.
For convenience and documentation purposes, a calibration template was created that contains
entries for the modeling options, parameters and their ranges as well as associated model results
and residuals. Documentation of calibration activities will be maintained using the Calibration
Template shown in Appendix A, Table A2. When conducting calibrations, the researcher will
use the calibration template to ensure inputs and outputs of the model are recorded. Statistical
methods, such as regression analyses and goodness-of-fit methods will be used when performing
model calibrations. The details of the model calibration procedure, including any statistical
analyses that are involved, and technical notes will also be documented on the calibration
template.
The model will be calibrated by comparing the predictions (output) for a given set of assumed
conditions to observed data for the same conditions. This comparison will allow the modeler to
evaluate whether the model and its parameter reasonably represent the environment of interest
(i.e., indoor environment). The acceptance criteria will depend on the Relative Root Mean
Square Error (RMSE) where a value of zero indicate a perfect fit of the modelling results to the
observed data. Lower values, generally, indicate a better model fit than higher values. The
acceptance criteria for the use of a specific parameter is 1) there are no other options found in the
literature or 2) when compared to other values obtained from literature, the RMSE associated
with this specific parameter is lower than the other RMSEs.
The calculation for the RMSE is shown on the calibration template, and a selected set of species
will be used as inputs (instead of having all 78 species used as inputs). For this smaller set,Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 21 of 29
species will be selected based on how impactful they are to indoor chemistry and how significant
they are to human health. The selected set of species will be documented once all of them are
identified.
B7. Model Verification (Model Comparison)
The model will be verified concurrently using existing analytical tools for indoor chemistry
simulation from the peer reviewed literature. Specifically, we will compare simulated
concentrations of key species (NO, NO2, HONO, O3, HCHO and OH) using SIACS to
previously published values in the literature. For example, we will compare SIACS output with
values from the Indoor Chemistry and Exposure Model (ICEM) by Sarwar et al. (2002), the
detailed chemical model by Carslaw (2007) and the INCA-indoor model by Mendez and
coworkers (2015), and the mathematical model by Nazaroff and Cass (1986). Analyses will
focus on perturbing the base case scenario to assess SIACS performance in modeling changes in
concentrations, and these results will be compared to the previously published models. Process
of performing these model comparisons and their results will be summarized in a white paper(s),
conference papers and/or published manuscript(s) in peer-reviewed journals.
B8. Model Evaluation & Validation
The SIACS model, SIACS User Guide, and other associated products will be evaluated in three
phases: (1) Simultaneous review by EPA reviewers and non-EPA Federal partners with expertise
on indoor air chemistry; (2) review of SIACS model and User Guide by a small group of external
modelers with indoor air chemistry and modeling expertise; (3) review of the model and key
scientific results and findings by a scientific journal.
These three stages of evaluation will be conducted to evaluate, adjust, and refine the model based
on performance (Figure 4). These three phases of testing will include testing all aspects of the
SIACS model, including quality assurance testing for functionality, Section 508 compliance,
spelling and grammatical errors, and other technical specifications.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 22 of 29
Figure 4. Model Evaluation Process
B8.1 Model Evaluation Plan
• Phase 1. EPA and Federal Subject Matter Expert Review
In an initial phase (Phase 1), the model will be independently and concurrently reviewed
by: EPA subject matter experts and external Federal subject matter experts. All subject
matter experts will be selected based on their expertise in indoor air chemistry,
atmospheric chemistry, and modeling, and will be requested to review and apply the
model to their data. A request for external Federal reviewers may potentially include
scientific expertise from the Consumer Product Safety Commission, Department of
Energy, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and the National
Institute of Standards and Technology. In preparation for these concurrent reviews, the
project team will develop validation criteria for the review (separately of this QAPP).
Reviewer feedback will be collected, revisions to the model will be implemented, and
responses will subsequently be provided to reviewers on how their feedback was
addressed and how associated improvements to the model were made. Once the
validation criteria (to be developed separately) and performance of the model based on
this feedback and subsequent revisions is satisfactorily met, a second phase of evaluation
will be conducted.
• Phase 2. Model Usability Review
In the second phase (Phase 2), the model will be disseminated to a small group of
external and EPA modelers, identified among existing partners from academic and
government institutions who have expertise in indoor air chemistry, for beta testing of the
model and GUI, to test its usability and functionality.
• Phase 3. Scientific Peer Review
Finally, in the third phase (Phase 3), application of the model and its results will be
submitted for review by a scientific journal. It is anticipated that in this third stage, the
results of this study will undergo internal technical review for presentations and will also
undergo external scientific peer-review before results are published in either an EPA
report or peer-reviewed journal. Additionally, the manuscripts will also undergo internal
technical reviews by individuals selected for their expertise related to this field prior to
publication clearance. These reviews are documented using associated internal routing
and clearance methods.
B8.2 Acceptance Criteria and Documentation
In all evaluation and review processes, specific evaluation and acceptance criteria, reviewerDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 23 of 29
comments and EPA’s response to comments (which will address steps EPA has taken to address
reviewer feedback) will be documented. Acceptance criteria (to be prepared separately in
preparation for the Phase 1 and Phase 2 reviews) will be reviewed and agreed upon by the
project team as part of the model review process. The following provides an overview of the
prospective process by which the product will be validated to ensure it meets the acceptance
criteria.
1. The model version and associated files are made available in a testing environment.
2. Tester(s) will test the functionality of the model based on agreed upon requirements (to be
prepared separately in preparation for the Phase 1 and Phase 2 reviews). For example, testing
for correctness of functionality can be based on the model generating outputs within ± 1% of
each other for the same set of input data, when run without stochastic variables (e.g.
measurement uncertainty).
3. The technical lead will report as bugs any acceptance criteria that are not met and will assign
them to a project team member for adjudication (refinement/adjustment of model/files).
4. The technical lead will prioritize bugs to be fixed ahead of new features.
5. Developers fix all reported issues.
More information on model testing and validation can be found in Section D1. Model testing
strategy. Records will be managed according to processes outlined in A6. Documents and
Records for more information.
B9. Data Management
All project files (statements of work, QAPPs, data files, etc.) are stored on a private EPA
SharePoint drive, in a folder labeled “SIACS”. Files are backed up on a regular basis (weekly &
monthly). Access is restricted to those on the project team. The SIACS model, related files, and
previous versions will be maintained on the project share drive (F:). As mentioned in Section A6,
all official records will also be saved on EZ Records.
This project will acquire data from secondary sources, manipulate secondary data to meet
user requirements, generate data from model output, and create summary and processed
files for further statistical and analytical treatment. It is anticipated that the project will
acquire or generate little or no hardcopy data. The project will maintain a data
management system that protects integrity of the data received and generated throughout
the project. This includes file management systems, version control, archiving
procedures, and quality assurance activities. See A6. Documents and Records for more
information.
C. ASSESSMENTS AND OVERSIGHT
C1. Assessments and Response ActionsDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 24 of 29
QA Audits/Reviews. The ORIA QAM, IED QAC, as well as other designated QA personnel for
this project may choose to conduct a Technical Systems Audit (TSA) during execution of the
research project to ensure this QAPP is being implemented as intended. Alternatively, QA staff,
or a designee, may perform an audit of data quality on either all or a portion of the generated data
if requested by the primary client (IED/ORIA Management). QA evaluations may include
interviews with development team members, and a review of research project work and quality
records. Any findings, research best practices, or improvements will be compiled in a report and
filed with other QA documents. Any corrective actions and responses will be
documented and filed with the Assessment Report and stored by the project lead.
The project team leader will have responsibility for monitoring project activities and
identifying or confirming any quality problems. Any problems will be brought to the
attention of the IED Management Team, IED QAC, and the ORIA QA Manager, who will
initiate corrective actions, document the nature of the problem, and ensure that the recommended
corrective action is carried out.
Additionally, any associated scientific and technical products cleared through ORIA/IED will
also undergo a quality assurance review prior to clearance to ensure that the developed product
was within the scope of the appropriate QAPP.
C2. Reports to Management
Weekly meetings with the project and task lead, as well as other team members, will be held to
verbally report on the status of the project, results of performance evaluations and systems
assessments, results of data quality and modeling evaluations, and any significant quality
assurance problems and recommended solutions. Documentation of research progress is kept in
SharePoint project notes.
Periodic updates/progress reports will be given to management as needed to discuss the progress
of the project. Recommended management actions will be taken as appropriate to adjust the
research. Any identified errors, deficiencies, and anomalies will be documented and reported to
the team. If needed, an error analysis will be performed, and the model processes will be
reviewed and/or modified. Any identified deviations from the approved QAPP will be
documented and reported to the task lead, management, QAC and QAM. Electronic quality
control information, technical assessments, and documentation will be made available to
interested parties.
D. MODEL VALIDATION AND USABILITY
D1. Model testing strategyDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 25 of 29
The model testing strategy will be developed separately of this QAPP and in preparation for the
Phase 1 and Phase 2 of the model evaluation, to ensure the final model meets the design
objectives (see section B8. Model Evaluation & Validation). As such, the testing protocols will
focus on whether or not the model:
• Provides reproduceable and sound model output
• Is user friendly
• Does not fail in unpredictable manners when improper data are input
• Satisfies specified requirements as outlined in this QAPP
To meet these objectives, we will apply a mixed approach for quality assurance, consisting of the
following components:
• Make beta versions of the program available to interested parties to evaluate the model’s
ease of use and documentation. This early implementation of model versions with
customers will create early feedback.
• This feedback will be considered for a revision of the model if necessary and it will be
important for the continued work.
• Consultation with programming subject matter experts.
• Implementation of consultation feedback for optimization of model performance.
D2. Procedure for checking the correctness of outputs
With respect to coding development, model outputs will be assumed to be without error except
for known bugs in R programming software previously documented internally or posted online.
SIACS model outputs will be verified through running and checking results associated with the
modified code. See section B4. Model Coding and Verification for more information.
Model verification and the checking and vetting of model output will be conducted according to
the processes outlined in sections B6. Model Calibration and B7. Model Verification (Model
Comparison).
D3. Quality assurance of code development.
Model code are checked by members of the model development staff. Checks include
performing testing of individual scripts and the integrated model. Quality objectives and criteria
of the developed code include accuracy, in-line documentation, code readability, adherence to
coding standards, model scripts, archival and version control. A model bug-reporting system is in
place through the R system to report bugs or code errors to be investigated. The development
team will explicitly declare all variables used, utilize R language constructs and conventions, and
include comment lines explaining algorithms and descriptive variable names with units listed in
the code or in supporting documentation. The SIACS User guide will provide additional
supporting information to assist the user with understanding the model code, input and output
variables, and overall construct.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 26 of 29
D4. Conformance to requirements
Conformance to requirements will be evaluated to determine whether the model can meet the
prescribed functional requirements. Limitations of the model will be noted within the model
itself and as part of the user instructions.
E. REFERENCES
ASHRAE, 2017. Handbook-Fundamentals, Atlanta: American Society of Heating, Refrigerating,
and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc.
Breen, Michael S., Bradley D. Schultz, Michael D. Sohn, Thomas Long, John Langstaff, Ronald
Williams, Kristin Isaacs, Qing Yu Meng, Casson Stallings, and Luther Smith. "A review of air
exchange rate models for air pollution exposure assessments." Journal of Exposure Science
and Environmental Epidemiology 24, no. 6 (2014): 555
Breen, Michael S., Miyuki Breen, Ronald W. Williams, and Bradley D. Schultz. "Predicting
residential air exchange rates from questionnaires and meteorology: model evaluation in
central North Carolina." Environmental science & technology 44, no. 24 (2010): 9349-9356.
Carslaw N. 2007. A new detailed chemical model for indoor air pollution. Atmospheric
Environment. 41, 1164–1179.
Carter, W. P. 2000. Documentation of the SAPRC-99 chemical mechanism for VOC reactivity
assessment. Contract, 92(329), 95-308.
Koutrakis P, Briggs SLK, Leaderer BP . Source apportionment of indoor aerosols in Suffolk and
Onondaga counties, New York. Environ Sci Technol 1992; 26: 521–527
Mendez M, Blond N, Blondeau P, Schoemaecker C, Hauglustaine DA. Assessment of the impact
of oxidation processes on indoor air pollution using the new time-resolved INCA-Indoor model
Nazaroff WW and Cass GR. 1986. Mathematical Modeling of Chemically Reactive Pollutants in
Indoor Air. Environmental Science and Technology. 20:9, 924-934.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1989. Report to Congress on indoor air quality: Volume
2. EPA/400/1-89/001C. Washington, DC.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2002a. Guidelines for Ensuring and Maximizing the
Quality, Objectivity, Utility, and Integrity of Information Disseminated by the Environmental
Protection Agency. EPA/260R-02-008 (October 2002 with Addenda in 2004 and 2005).U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2002b. Guidance for Quality Assurance Project Plans for
Modeling EPA QA/G-5MDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 27 of 29
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2003. A Summary of General Assessment Factors for
Evaluating the Quality of Scientific and Technical Information (EPA 100/B-03/001) June 2003
and addendum, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
F. LIST OF SECTIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS QAPP
Sections B.1-B.6 and B.8 of the [QAPP GUIDANCE (i.e., Sampling, Measurement, etc.] are not
applicable to the scope of this project or QAPP.
• B1. Sampling Process Design
• B2. Sampling Methods
• B3. Sample Handling and Custody
• B4. Analytical Methods
• B5. Quality Control
• B6. Instrument/Equipment Testing, Inspection, and Maintenance
• B8. Inspection/Acceptance for Supplies and ConsumablesDevelopment of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 28 of 29
Appendix A
QC Documentation Table
Table A1. Data Quality Assessment Factors (DQAs) and Data Quality Indicators (DQIs) review of existing information/data
Data Source
Citation
Data Quality Assessment Factors Data Quality Indicators Explanations
Comparability
Evaluation and
Review
Uncertainty and
Variability
Clarity and
Completeness
Soundness
Applicability and
Utility
Sensitivity
Comparability
Completeness
Representativeness
Bias
Precision
No. Information
data source
citation
X X X X X X X X X X X X
1.
Grade X as provided below:
A = Acceptable and used in the evaluation;
M = Marginal and used for corroborating purposes;
U = Unacceptable and not used in the evaluation; and
N = Not Applicable.Development of EPA’s Simplified Indoor Air Chemistry Simulator (SIACS) Model
EPA/OAR/ORIA/IED Page 29 of 29
Calibration Template
Table A2. Calibration template
What is the source of the
parameter being evaluated?
What is the source
of the observation
data?
What parameters
are being
evaluated?
Where are the
simulation conditions?
What are the inputs?
What
outputs
are of
interest?
Relative root
mean square
error (RMSE) Notes
𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐷𝑖𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒 = 100 ×
𝑆𝐼𝐴𝐶𝑆
𝑎𝑣𝑔 − 𝑜𝑏𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑣𝑔
𝑜𝑏𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛
𝑎𝑣𝑔
The relative difference is per-species, and it is the average over the time period.
𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑅𝑀𝑆𝐸 = √∑(𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐷𝑖𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒)2